By now we have covered
all the bits you need to know,
in order to get started using
components in your applications.
Before you do that though,
it's best to do some practice,
so that you commit
what you've learned to memory,
since the best way to learn code
is by writing code.
When you are working on a website
you usually have a template,
or you use a CSS framework
like Boostrap, Bulma or Semantic UI.
Breaking the template
or common elements into components,
is one of the most common use cases.
Just for the exercises
I will be using Semantic UI,
that comes with a ton of UI elements.
If you prefer to use
another CSS framework,
that you are more familiar with,
then do that.
One drawback of Semantic
is that it requires jQuery,
in its JavaScript library.
Though, we will just use their CSS,
so we don't need anything extra.
The element that we will use
in this exercise, is the card.
The goal is to create a component,
that displays
a person's GitHub profile, like so.
This will be the user's avatar,
this their name,
here we can use the date
that the user registered,
here the bio,
and lastly, we can display
the number of followers the user has.
We can also fix the links
to send to the user's profile page,
and followers page.
You can copy the markup,
if you click
this little icon over here.
Don't forget to include
Semantic UI in your page.
I recommend you grab
their full CSS file from a CDN.
The goal of this exercise
is to create a component,
like github-user-card,
that accepts the username
of the user to display.
Something like this.
Now, as you're probably thinking,
the component needs to make
an AJAX call to Github's API,
in order to retrieve the user details.
You can do that
using the fetch method,
or the axios library
in a component's lifecycle hook.
The url to get a user from Github,
is api.github.com/users
/ whatever the username is.
I have included
some boilerplate code here
to help you get started,
where I've included Vue.js,
axios,
and Semantic UIs CSS.
You will find the link
in the description of the video.
Ok, it's time for you
to pause the video,
do the exercise,
and come back to see
the solution when you are ready.
If you struggle solving this,
don't worry,
and don't give up easily.
It might take a while,
if this is your first time
that you've written a component,
or if you are just starting out
with Vue.
If that's the case,
I advise you to try
as hard as possible to solve this,
and the next exercise by yourself,
before looking at the solutions,
so you can truly
understand the concepts.
If you have any questions,
you can leave a comment or chat
about it in our Slack workspace.
Ok, go on. I'm waiting.
Welcome back!
Let's see how we can implement
the GitHub user card component.
I like to begin
with the JavaScript of my components,
and make sure I have all I need,
before I tackle
the component's template.
To get started,
I will register the component,
and give it a prop, that is username,
that we need in order to know
which user to look for.
The username should be type of string,
and it will be required.
The functionality of this component
is to make a call to GitHub's API,
to get the user's details
in order to display them.
So, let's add a data property
to store the user object in.
Now, it's time for the fun part.
We will do the AJAX call
once the component is created,
and before it's mounted
to the document.
For this stage,
we will use the created hook.
In here,
we will use the axios.get method,
to make an AJAX request.
This will allow us
to grab the user from Github
using the passed username.
Then, I will change
the createdLifecycleHook to async
so that we can await the response
from Github.
Finally, I will set the response data
to our user data property.
Looks good!
Since we already use
the component in the HTML,
if we open the devtools we can inspect
the component's instance,
and confirm
that the user object is here.
Great, we can also take a look
at its properties
that we will use
in the component's template.
Okay, let's fix the template now.
I will create a template,
and use it's id
to assign it to our component.
Let's move the HTML for the card
inside here.
And then I'll just move the template
down with the other scripts.
Lastly, I'll register the template
on the component,
Inside of the template,
we have access to the user object,
so I will replace
the hardcoded values,
with what we get from the API.
If you want to see the available data,
you can either check the devtools
or open the Github API in the browser.
For the links, we can add them
directly in the template,
or create computed properties.
I will just put them in the template.
Great! Our component is ready.
Let's check it out.
Oops, we need the # selector here.
Great, it works.
Now, we can create
as many Github cards as we want.
If we want to create
many Github cards,
we can create an array in our data.
And then we will use v-for
to loop over each item in the array
creating a card for each.
Cool, now we have
all these people here.